---
title: Insert title here
key: b04e1e9d05eb9540d3212141da9d42c1

---
## What is a program?

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "ad8507a847"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Allen Downey
title: undefined


`@script`



---
## Instructions

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "8a1e7c5e66"
```

`@part1`
- Input
- Output
- Math
- Conditional execution
- Repetition


`@script`
A program is a sequence of "instructions" that specifies how to perform a computation.

The details look different in different languages, but a few basic instructions appear in just about every language:

input:
Get data from the keyboard, a file, the network, or some other device.

output:
Display data on the screen, save it in a file, send it over the network, etc.

math:
Perform basic mathematical operations like addition and multiplication.

conditional execution:
Check for certain conditions and run the appropriate code.

repetition:
Perform some action repeatedly, usually with some variation.

Believe it or not, that’s pretty much all there is to it. Every program you’ve ever used, no matter how complicated, is made up of instructions that look pretty much like these. So you can think of programming as the process of breaking a large, complex task into smaller and smaller subtasks until the subtasks are simple enough to be performed with one of these basic instructions.


---
## The Python interpreter

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "075c3294b3"
```

`@part1`
```
Show the prompt
>>> 
```


`@script`
To run a Python program, you need an interpreter, which is a program that reads and executes Python code. 

On the DataCamp platform, we will provide you with an interpreter you can use to run programs.

[Explain the prompt]


---
## Hello, World!

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "a77f04bac9"
```

`@part1`
```python
>>> print('Hello, World!')
```

```
Hello, World!
```


`@script`
Traditionally, the first program you write in a new language is called “Hello, World!” because all it does is display the words “Hello, World!”. 

In Python, it looks like this.

This is an example of a print statement, although it doesn’t actually print anything on paper. It displays a result on the screen. In this case, the result is the words

Hello, World!

The quotation marks in the program mark the beginning and end of the text to be displayed; they don’t appear in the result.

The parentheses indicate that print is a function, which I'll explain soon.


---
## Arithmetic operators

```yaml
type: "TwoColumns"
key: "eaed466ff3"
```

`@part1`
```python
>>> 40 + 2
42
>>> 43 - 1
42
>>> 6 * 7
42
```


`@part2`
```python
>>> 84 / 2
42.0
```

```python
>>> 6**2 + 6
42
```


`@script`
The next step is arithmetic. Python provides operators, which are special symbols that represent computations like addition and multiplication.

The operators +, -, and * perform addition, subtraction, and multiplication, as in the following examples.

The operator / performs division.

Finally, the operator ** performs exponentiation; that is, it raises a number to a power:


---
## Insert title here...

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "9b2cc20107"
```

`@part1`



`@script`
A value is one of the basic things a program works with, like a letter or a number. Some values we have seen so far are 2, 42.0, and 'Hello, World!'.

These values belong to different types: 2 is an integer, 42.0 is a floating-point number, and 'Hello, World!' is a string, so-called because the letters it contains are strung together.

If you are not sure what type a value has, the interpreter can tell you:

>>> type(2)
<class 'int'>
>>> type(42.0)
<class 'float'>
>>> type('Hello, World!')
<class 'str'>
In these results, the word “class” is used in the sense of a category; a type is a category of values.

Not surprisingly, integers belong to the type int, strings belong to str and floating-point numbers belong to float.

What about values like '2' and '42.0'? They look like numbers, but they are in quotation marks like strings.

>>> type('2')
<class 'str'>
>>> type('42.0')
<class 'str'>
They’re strings.

When you type a large integer, you might be tempted to use commas between groups of digits, as in 1,000,000. This is not a legal integer in Python, but it is legal:

>>> 1,000,000
(1, 0, 0)
That’s not what we expected at all! Python interprets 1,000,000 as a comma-separated sequence of integers. We’ll learn more about this kind of sequence later.


---
## Values and types

```yaml
type: "TwoColumns"
key: "611a47e06f"
```

`@part1`
```python
>>> type(2)
<class 'int'>
>>> type(42.0)
<class 'float'>
>>> type('Hello, World!')
<class 'str'>
```


`@part2`
```python
>>> type('2')
<class 'str'>
>>> type('42.0')
<class 'str'>
```


`@script`
A "value" is one of the basic things a program works with, like a letter or a number. Some values we have seen so far are 2, 42.0, and 'Hello, World!'.

These values belong to different types: 2 is an integer, 42.0 is a floating-point number, and 'Hello, World!' is a string, so-called because the letters it contains are strung together.

If you are not sure what type a value has, the interpreter can tell you.

In these results, the word “class” is used in the sense of a category; a type is a category of values.

Not surprisingly, integers belong to the type int, strings belong to str and floating-point numbers belong to float.

What about values like '2' and '42.0'? They look like numbers, but they are in quotation marks like strings.

According to the interpreter, they’re strings.


---
## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "cbb021acb0"
```

`@script`


